# Welcome

These ***DemoDev*** projects illustrate techniques for building Java based components, and is a collection of Java projects forms the nucleus of an upcoming book on Java programming. Service Oriented Architecture examples are included as well. Topics included are:

- Various object-oriented and functional coding techniques are illustrated with real examples.
- Ready-to-uses utilities as libraries and executables.
- Performance testing approaches.
- DevOps examples.
- Interview questions.

One sub-topic is a collection of interviewing coding questions is included to illustrate industry-wide assessment of Java coding skills. Often these coding solutions do not follow programming best practices in order to meet a time or complexity constraint in an interview. However, the other sub-projects follow well known programming principles. Please see [https://medium.com/better-programming/kiss-dry-and-code-principles-every-developer-should-follow-b77d89f51d74](https://medium.com/better-programming/kiss-dry-and-code-principles-every-developer-should-follow-b77d89f51d74) for an overview, and scan the **Sub-Project Structure** description documented below.

Algorithms and performance testing approaches are included in the repository, along with ready-to-use utility programs and libraries. There is also a DevOps sub-project collection of build related utilities and templating.

### Building Projects in the Repository

The Java projects in *DemoDev* use Maven to build and JUnit to test artifacts. Note that JUnit is a framework, one of many, for regression testing.  A Maven build project is defined by an XML structure persisted in a "***pom.xml***" file located in the build project directory. Maven build projects may be nested in a tree structure.

In a *tree* of Maven build projects, the _root_ (top-most) parent build project defines common MAVEN dependencies and version definitions in a *pom.xml*. Nested child build projects are located under the top-level parent build project, each child with their own *pom.xml* file, optionally overriding inherited MAVEN dependencies and versions.

A child Maven build project build may, in turn, be a parent of an even lower level child build project, thus forming a multi-level tree of related build projects, each inheriting common MAVEN dependencies.

Maven creates a build using "*plugins*" that implement build actions. Similar to dependencies and versions, plugins are included in parent build projects and optionally overridden in child build projects.

There are far too many Maven tutorials to mention here, so please search the web for one that helps you. More information is provided in the **Getting Started** section below.

### Java Requirement

Most of *DemoDev* is built using Java 8, but Java 9 introduced the REPL (Run-Execute-Print-Loop); an interactive Java runtime environment. Many of us are still tied to Java 8 for business reasons, but would like to experiment with the REPL. This site, called [https://github.com/javaterminal/tryjshell](https://github.com/javaterminal/tryjshell "tryjshell"), offers a browser-accessible version of the Java REPL. They also provide a hosted version at [https://tryjshell.org/](https://tryjshell.org/).

## *DemoDev* Content Commercial Opportunities

Please contact _Donald Trummell_ via Email using dtrummell@gmail.com for additional information regarding commercial use of projects in this repository.  His LinkedIn profile is found at [http://www.linkedin.com/in/donaldtrummell/](http://www.linkedin.com/in/donaldtrummell/ "here"). You may review the published form of this documentation at  [http://donaldet.github.io/DemoDev/](http://donaldet.github.io/DemoDev/ "the pretty view").

This project contributes utility and algorithmic components to the ***Wind Power Explorer*** project, with permission (please see the [https://github.com/WindPowerExplorer/FullSail](https://github.com/WindPowerExplorer/FullSail "FullSail") repository).

# Getting Started

All the information needed to build these projects is detailed in the _BuildResources_ document described below.  The process you will follow is:
 1. Download required build dependencies (e.g., Java, MAVEN, and optionally ANT)
 2. Install and test the build dependencies
 3. Fork or download the source code from the GitHub repository (see the DemoDev repository at [https://github.com/DonaldET/DemoDev](https://github.com/DonaldET/DemoDev "the source repo") for source code access.)
 4. On the command line, from the downloaded base directory, execute:
    _mvn clean install_

The _StaticResources_ directory references instructions on how to setup a MAVEN and JAVA build environment in document _BuildResources.pdf_. The PDF is a **GITHUB** hosted document that also contains links back to this source code repository (*DemoDev*).

## *DemoDev* Sub-Project Categories

*DemoDev* is composed of multiple sub-projects, with each sub-project having a README.md file offering information about the sub-project and its contents.  Interesting sub-projects include:

- *algorithms*: Math algorithm demonstrations.
- optimizations: Useful utilities around optimizing processes.
- *hacks*: Unusual solutions to interesting problems that don't necessarily reflect _best practices_.
- *jerseyservices*: RESTful Java service implementations using the **Jersey framework**
- *memoryindexing*: In-memory search algorithms
- *utils*: Utilities used by _DemoDev_ and related projects (e.g., code generation used by _WindPower Explorer_)
- *codingexams*: Coding and Algorithm interview questions asked over a whiteboard or in a collaboration environment coding environment.


## Sub-Project Structure

Sub-projects usually include a _business_ motivation for the coding examples in this section of the repository.  The examples also show good _OO design principals_, such as _KISS_, _DRY_ (don't repeat yourself), and _SOLID_ (Single responsibility, Open-closed, Liskov substitution, Interface segregation and Dependency inversion.) This site violates _YAGNI_ for educational purposes. Spring has a very readable overview of the *Liskov Substitution Principle* (see https://springframework.guru/principles-of-object-oriented-design/liskov-substitution-principle/.) While not directly illustrated in these examples, an important principle is the principle of least astonishment (or least surprise.) Related to KISS, it really means that a code reader is not surprised by the approach taken to solve a problem (see [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_astonishment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_astonishment "least surprise").)

The sub-projects have their _JavaDoc_ entries explaining their role in the solution and the portion of the problem they address. Many sub-projects include JUnit tests because this reflects good _TDD_ practice and allows maintenance of the examples over time.  Stability over time is accomplished by using the regression aspect of these tests.

Many of the projects appear unnecessarily _complicated_ by use of the *Spring* framework to solve what may appear to be a potentially simple problem.  This is done to illustrate _Spring_ usage as well as the basic techniques shown in the example. Overall, a professional Software Engineer working on production code would provide background for code implementation choices, some guidelines on deployment and usage in the _JavaDoc_ entries, and tips to help maintain the code.  The example invocations within unit tests help in achieving these documentation goals.

## Other resources

- See [Learning-Resources](README.md) for  tools to improve Java, Python, and  SQL skills.