#Welcome

These small _DemoDev_ projects illustrate useful techniques for building Java and J2EE related applications.  They use Maven to build the project artifacts and JUnit to test artifacts.  The _root_ parent project defines common MAVEN dependencies and versions. Nested child projects are located under the top-level parent project.  A child project may be a parent of lower level child projects forming a tree. Shared plugins and _localized_ dependencies are included in parent projects and sometimes overridden in child projects.

Please contact _Donald Trummell_ via Email using dtrummell@gmail.com.  You may see his detailed profile [here](http://www.linkedin/in/donaldtrummell/).

#Getting Started

The _StaticResources_ directory contains instructions on how to setup a MAVEN and JAVA build environment (see document _BuildResources.pdf_.) This **GITHUB** hosted document contains links to the source code repository holding _DonaldET\DemoDev_.

##Sub-Project Categories

*DemoDev* is broken into multiple sub-project with each sub-project having a README.md file offering information about the sub-project and its contents.  Sub-projects include:
- *codingexams*: Codind and Algorithm questions asked over a whiteboard or in a collaboration environment.
- *hacks*: Unusual solutions to interesting problems that don't necessarily reflect so-called _best practices_.
- *jerseyservices*: RESTful service implementations using the **Jersey framework**
- *memoryindexing*: In-memory search algorithms
- *utils*: Utilities used by _DemoDev_


##Sub-Project Structure

Sub-projects usually include a “business” motivation for the coding example.  The examples also show good _OO design principals_, such as *KISS*, *DRY* (don’t repeat yourself), and *SOLID* (Single responsibility, Open-closed, Liskov substitution, Interface segregation and Dependency inversion.)

The sub-project solution collaborators have their _JavaDoc_ entries explaining their role in the solution and the portion of the problem they address. All sub-projects include ‘JUnit’ tests because this reflects good _TDD_ practice and allows maintenance of the examples over time.  This is accomplished by using the regression aspect of these tests. Many of the projects appear _complicated_ by use of the *Spring* framework.  This is done to illustrate _Spring_ usage in addition to the basic technique shown in the example. Overall, a professional Software Engineer would provide background for the code, some guidelines on usage in the _JavaDoc_ entries, and tips to help maintain the code.  Example invocation with unit tests help in achieving these goals.
